# Project Report

### Group A2Group8 Project Report: Touchglobe

Together as a group we decided to settle on utilising the project idea of TouchGlobe, originally envisioned by Sam Jones, due to the fact it was a straightforward concept with real-world applications that are desirable and practical for businesses to implement without significant cost.<br><br>
TouchGlobe is essentially an online booking UI for the cruise industry, that is designed to fill what appears to be a glaring hole in the design of current online booking Systems for cruise lines. As we can see from the following basic searches on three major cruise line websites (Norwegian Cruise Line, G Adventures) each of these business’ utilise a simple search list feature for planning holidays with them, which may be suitable for some guests, does not provide a kinaesthetic or audio interaction in any way, in addition to this, it provides low user interactivity, which has been linked to higher engagement.<br><br>
TouchGlobe offers to solve that problem, by utilising an interactive booking experience for the user. This will hopefully mean better user engagement and a higher amount of bookings for the target company, because at the end of the day, the goal is profitability.<br><br>
TouchGlobe is an interactive world globe which walks the user through the booking process whilst keeping them engaged and interactive all throughout the experience. The process begins when the user selects to “Plan a holiday” on the companies website, it will then prompt the user with qualifying questions, including “where would you like to travel” and “when would you like to travel”, this will cause the TouchGlobe to rotate and highlight the area of travel they have selected. (IE they have selected Spain, or the Baltic, etc) and it will utilise a library for nearest available cruising destinations if the user inputs an invalid option, for example, you cannot cruise to Berlin in Germany, but there is a port available approximately 3 hours away called Warnemunde. Adding qualifiers in at this point of the process means a much cleaner visual experience for the user, as most cruises will have hundreds if not thousands of cruises available over the course of a year. Once the Globe is initialised and rotated to the destination and timeframe the user has selected it will highlight in green the ports of embarkation for cruise holidays, and in yellow all the ports that they can visit in that area.<br><br>
From here, the guest can look at the following information for each type of pin;

-	Available cruises to that destination
-	Port overview including basic information such as;  weather during the time they have selected, port access information (transfers etc),  simple description of the port. (These descriptions should all be available as audio descriptions also)
-	 Sight-Seeing/Shore excursions, which provides information on nearby points of interest, or bookable shore excursions available from that port. (Descriptions of shore excursions are all available as audio descriptions also)
Once the guest selects a cruise, globeTouch will highlight their cruise of choice and map it, so the guest can see all ports of access, alongside the direction of travel so they can make informed decisions for their cabin selection. From there the standard booking process is followed through the booking engine of the company utilising TouchGlobe.
<br><br>
Regarding development of the project, the requirements are straightforward – Javascript for the interactive globe, HTML and CSS for the website design and integration and a UI designer to make sure that the systems match the visual experience and lastly some sort of back end integration to the parent companies booking engine (the language these are written in tends to vary, so I have not specified the requirements).<br><br>
Ultimately, as we discussed earlier, the end goal is providing a better user experience which also results in a higher conversion rate for the cruise company, and because of the low upfront investment in this system this seems quite likely.
